>> Jerome Hardaway: I usually
don't include this section,
especially the last three years, because
frankly, if you did everything else
I told you the right way, you usually
wouldn't even need this section.
But the market has changed
where even people like me,
who have crazy career metrics
of being all over the place,
are still having to do the code challenge.
Where they're not valuing
just the work you've done.
So we have to now talk about this
technical interview preparation.
How to do it,
how do we plan it out when it
comes to a particular job, right?
And now I'm going to go over stuff
that not only the statistical
data show that it's a code,
but the data has shown for
me this year with my own
journey of what works.
First step, you have to
understand the interview process.
So we know, you got the resume with ATS,
ATS said good HR, and
now we go from the HR and
we are able to like, okay,
you're going to interview.
So, how's that interview go?
Your HR calls you,
in today's market HR is going to call you,
it's going to be recorded.
They are going to be using artificial
intelligence on this recording.
So this is why you need to practice
every single layer of interviewing.
They are gonna be doing sentiment
analysis on this recording,
I can't stress that enough.
There will be sentiment analysis
done on this recording,
that's what the software does.
It showcases if you're based upon your
uhs, how uncertain the inflections in your
voice, things like that, this is what
this software is designed to do.
So that first phone call you have,
that is your life right there.
That's not, you can't just
foodbar your way through that.
This is life.
So after that, if you pass that, usually,
in order to keep from bias happening,
the first interview is
gonna be a co-challenge.
That is what happens, so that way you
cannot use rapport and relationships.
It's gonna be a code challenge, and
because of the way the technology is now,
it's gonna be on CodeSignal,
HackerRank, LeetCode.
Even though, as a programmer that's
worked in enterprise tech now,
I have yet to see a problem that
translates well from LeetCode or
HackerRank into real world coding.
That is still gonna be the thing.
Now, we're saying this,
why is this gonna be in these,
is because with IDEs, with AI,
Audi, stools, co-pilot,
it's like back in 2015
when rails was really big.
People can build robust tools and
robust applications
with minimal processing,
a minimal experience, right?
So it's the same thing with now in the era
of AI, I can give you a code challenge,
but if I, one, didn't already
care about the code challenge,
just pull someone off the internet.
Definitely ChatGPT definitely knows that,
or Copilot knows it, etc.
So now I have to put you in these
environments that aren't realistic,
they don't have linters,
they don't have access to the internet,
things of that nature, in order for
you to actually code, right?
To see if you can truly code.
I've had two of them, one,
it was much more difficult, and
then the other one it was much
easier with the type of tools.
So I was like, so some of them
are going higher in skill set, and
some of them are going lower in skill
set based upon the fact that guess what?
The nature of how you
code in real life is, so
far different from nature
to encode on these.
But you still have to prepare for the
higher levels, that's what I recommend.
So, now you do that, then you get your
loops or your other versions of like,
now you're talking to the dev team.
You're talking to one, two, three,
there are sometimes flying you out to
talk to people on the developer team.
So that way you're now having
to ask these questions, IRL,
but there's also bias in stuff.
Cuz once the developers get in or they
start hearing your name and stuff of that
nature, they're like, especially me,
I had this problem with the why.
Where, that's when I could tell
the bias was starting to come in and
I'm like, okay,
this part isn't gonna be as good for
my data,
because I'm not gonna be able to use it.
Because I know that these
people know who I am now.
Like, HR didn't know who I was, but
the coders knew who I was, at least one.
And they were like, he's so cool.
You may have started Googling me and
started wondering, no,
cuz every self-centered jerk,
I have Google updates whenever people
are Googling like crazy, right?
On what's happening in the streets.
So I knew that the data wasn't gonna be as
clean for that, but I still got that offer
and I was like, okay, I know that right up
until this point, the data wasn't clean.
So that's where bias starts.
Once the developers start getting into
play, particularly when it comes to
networking and things,
that's when bias can get into play.
Now, it can get into play earlier, but
for me, bias didn't really get into
play until after the human software
engineer got into it, right?
So that can be taken as positive or
negative.
But after that loop,
after you get to go no-go and
you start with the, this is the offer.
I always send the first offer back,
you always negotiate the offer, and
you don't just have negotiating money, you
negotiate the budget for learning, right?
How many of you have negotiated,
hey, guess what, can you pay for
my Frontendmasters?
I've done that.
Can you pay for the tickets for
a conference once a year?
Can you do that all these other
things that are on the table beyond
just a salary, like, you know what?
Just not being able to spend the money
on things that I would spend money on to
be good at my job is just as important
as me having the money itself, right?
And being able to pick my resource.
Now, that's the interview process, right?
ATS, HR, that phone call, that's
sort of AI starts getting component,
then you get the code challenge,
and then the code challenge.
Now, one thing I will tell you,
with the code challenge,
they're not just testing that you can
code, they are testing how you communicate
while you're coding, and if you
understand the performance of your code.
Now, that's why we have to start
getting back into our CS fundamentals,
because there is a lot of big O notation
asked in today's current coding questions.
Not just, what Is the big O,
how do you identify to big O, etc?
Just they wanna know that you're
writing performant code now.
>> Student: Just to add to that,
our computer science and interview prep
learning path has most of our computer
science and algorithm courses.
So it starts out with a complete intro to
computer science, and then as a couple
intermediate, advanced algorithm courses,
and some practical algorithm challenges.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Awesome,
so you guys heard that?
Frontend Masters has a computer science
path that you can get on to help shore up
those skills.
You're definitely gonna need
them in this current market.
Practice, practice coding challenge,
go on LeetCode.
Exorcism.io is also one, that's
actually my favorite, I like being on
Exorcism.io and just practicing the stuff
in the terminal and my own text editor.
But you kinda, in this era,
gotta get on a browser and
use one of those browser-based tools,
unfortunately.
Because, you gotta train in
an environment they're gonna be in.
In a military, we call it a train how you
fight, civilian side call it, train how
you work, you have to train in the
environments that you're going to be in.
And that's the environment you're
gonna be in on a code challenge,
so you need to get comfortable with that.
And I recommend you start talking out loud
when you're doing your code challenge, so
you're figuring out so and making notes.
First thing I do is I make notes
about everything the person says, and
comments, and
then I started working on my code.
And I start talking out loud about,
this is all the things I do to do, and
here's all the problems and
I'm gonna go now hard coding and
now I'm gonna make this code a little
more flexible, little more elegant.
Now I'm gonna think about,
mh-hm, is this performing that?
Let me see, how would I've gotten this for
four minutes.
Let me do these steps, right?
That's how I go through the process
of code challenges now.
Most importantly, develop a study plan.
Like said I am the biggest, stay ready so
you don't have to get ready fan.
I have a study plan for
every quarter of my life.
I prepare for that plan and
that's what I focus on those,
that's the important
thing I spend 90 minutes.
That's the apex of deep learning
that you could get with anything,
you do 90 minutes of deep learning or
deep work.
Cal Newport, love his books.
He is my idol, I everything he does,
I'm like, I literally,
okay, 90 minutes to apex of time
that I can do before I need a break.
So I spend 90 minutes on deep work,
on a subject every day.
And that gives you compound
interest of those subjects.
So if I'm prepping for a code for this,
I'm developing my plan on Sunday,
90 minutes.
Now, executing, Monday through Friday,
on that plan, 90 minutes a day.
That 90 minutes adds up,
the first 90 minutes is gonna suck,
by the time you get to the 10th,
90th minute, you're a pro, right?
You've learned a new language probably,
and
you've learned how to do all
these algorithms, right?
So that's what we have to do.
And build projects that also incorporate
these types of things, right?
One of the things we talk about building
projects is, we don't talk about,
what are we trying to
learn with the project?
I've had that question,
we talked about the JavaScript calculator,
the job of it is to teach
you the module pattern.
But people don't know the job of
the JavaScript calculator is to teach you
the module pattern.
The to-do apps I'm supposed to teach you
is not only how to make crud applications,
but also supposed to teach you LIFO and
FIFO, which is, Last In First Out,
First In, First Out right?
Those are the principles that you
start learning with these, but
people don't know.
They don't think that those
are the computer science principles
that you're supposed to be picking up
when you're doing those small projects.
People don't understand that.
They don't pick up on that.
They're just like,
let's just do this stuff, right?
And if you're a mid senior,
this is what's most important to you,
having an understanding of
system design and design doc,
how to put all the pieces together, right?
Like, as a junior, you're like, hey,
I'm gonna go to GitHub, start coding.
I'm gonna use Next.js, and
then I'm gonna use Versal, I'm done.
Bow, I bow to your uncle, the app is live.
[LAUGH] Gun finger,
finger guns everywhere, right?
That's it.
You can't do that as a junior,
I need to know that you understand,
where are you gonna put your data layer?
What are you gonna use for
your data layer?
How are we gonna do measure performance?
Where are we gonna do logging?
Where are we gonna do observability,
right?
Observability, that's a thing that people
don't even think about when they're
thinking about their interview process.
Now I have to talk about this,
now as a mid-senior?
As a junior you're like,
what is observability?
What am I doing?
You're observing the app, like, you're
observing the resources on the app and
making sure that performance is good.
Like, okay, that's cool, these are things
that you now have to start thinking about.
So now you have to start thinking about
the architecture of your applications,
designs of the systems that
you're gonna be building,
on top of all this other stuff.
And of course, continuous learning.
If you're anything,
like I said, I'm getting ready,
so I'm doing the study plan.
I have continuous learning plans.
I know what I'm gonna learn this quarter.
I know what I'm gonna
learn the next quarter.
I know what I'm gonna learn.
I know when I'm gonna learn it.
I know what part of the world I'm
gonna be at when I learn something.
I know in August, I am gonna be focusing
on artificial intelligence with R and
doing more rag application training.
And I know I'm gonna be in Japan while I
do that, because I have the vacation in
Japan but my wife knows I'm not giving
up those 90 minutes of education.
So I know what I'm gonna be learning,
where I'm gonna be learning it at, and
would like to focus on how I'm
gonna be learning it, right?
I'm gonna be on deep learning
AI LinkedIn learning,
I'm gonna be on these and focusing on
how to learn these two things, right?